# hAIku
A React Native app that generates unique poems based on user input

**Motivation**:

The motivation for hAIku came after working with OpenAI's text generation algorithm, GPT-3. After playing with the algorithm I realized it was great at generating metaphors, similies, and instances of personification. Since I had never seen a text generation algorithm so adept at using figures of speech, I decided to create a poetry generation app.

**Goal and Result**:

The goal of hAIku was to create an app that generated relatively complex poems based off a user inputted topic. hAIku succeeds at generating impressive metaphors, similies, and instances of personification. Below are example of poems generated by hAIku:

topic 1: harsh blizzard



      Branches like bones of birds 

      Like feathered fish frozen mid-jump 
      
      Brittle beauty, awe-filled I wondered
      
      
topic 2: deep orange


      Fiery color dazzling
      
      In sun's radiance!
      
      Pure sunlight filling in
      
      
topic 3: warm summer day


      Dog days full of sun
      
      Cool ocean winds howl
      
      Trees sweat perfume
      
      
topic 4: anxiety

      Guilty conscience tickles
      
      Like an insistent finger
      
      Trying to get your attention...
      
      
**Languages and Technologies**:

The bulk of the code is written in React Native. Before developing the app I was familiar with React JS, so React Native was not a difficult langauge to work with.


The authentication is done through Google Firebase Authentication


Database interaction is done through Google Firestore


API interaction is done through Axios


React-Redux is used for state management


**Compliance with OpenAI's safety guidlines**:

Since GPT-3 is a new and powerful algorithm, OpenAI requires developers to implement compliance standards in their code. These standards include best ethical practices and other safety standards. hAIku is in compliance with all of the guildlines set forth by OpenAI.


**Current State of the App**:

All of the code is finished and tested. In the future I will submit hAIku to Apple and OpenAI for approval.


**Video Demo and Screenshots**

Within this repo is a video where I demo hAIku. Unfortunately the audio is not working, however the audio is not necessary for seeing how the app works. I am working on sorting out the audio issue.

In the repo there is also a pdf that contains screenshots of the app, with accompanied descriptions of the screenshots.

